---
title: "Konsole in 2020"
published: true
---

Konsole is having a resurge in the moment, it's the terminal emulator of choice
for the power user that wants to break the 4th wall in *nix systems. Right now
it can do almost all the things I want it to do, and a few more.

Since last year you can use splits in Konsole, with full drag & drop support
between tabs and windows.

{% include youtube.html id="f9Y1pul8smQ" %}

You can also use Konsole to quickly check for thumbnails of anything that dolphin
can show you, just by hovering with the mouse (and depending of your configuration)
pressing shift/control/alt. To my knowledge Konsole is the only terminal emulator
that supports this.

{% include youtube.html id="8lic9xKG4lo" %}

Probably you already used `ls` to list a file that you need to get the full url,
to open in an unrelated program that does not accept the common way to open files
via the shell, and you need to paste into a dialog, or you just need to send the
full path of a file for a project colleague. I had problems with this untill I
snapped and implemented a way for konsole to `Copy Location`, it copies the full
file path of the selected file, and adds this data to your clipboard.

{% include youtube.html id="z11WRTM35Nc" %}

Konsole supported for quite a while a way for you to click in a file and open it
in a the default editor (you need to have this configured in the profile) - but
sometimes we don't want to open it in the default file, we wan't to visualize
a image in gwenview or edit it in gimp, so now konsole supports a `Open With` menu
quite helpful when you don't remember the name of the app you want to use but
remember the icon. :)

{% include youtube.html id="iUhftcLEfXo" %}

Now a few features I'm working that I expect that will be ready for the next
version of konsole, those are still in review and I don't know when they will
be ready, it's just a sneak peek:

Configurable dimm stength for inactive terminals - when you are working with
split views and many terminals, there's a option in the profile that makes the
terminals without focus darker, so it's easier to know which terminal you are,
but it was not possible to configure the amount of darkening - and different
people have different needs, so now you can do this: (*not merged yet*)

{% include youtube.html id="dx8B6mJqVhU" %}

Improved broadcast support - Konsole already supported this, but it did not play
well with splits, and it was not really easy to integrate multiple windows. How
you can now select what kind of broadcast group a terminal belongs to, any
terminal that belongs to the same group will send data to it, there's also a
None group - for terminals that should not send data anywhere, and a `Broadcast
to All` groups, that will push data everywhere - despite being in the group or
not. (*not merged yet*)

{% include youtube.html id="PmI-t-nGsKs" %}

Support for URL Escape Codes. There's a spec that specifies how a terminal
application can embbed a URL inside of a block of text, by using the special
notation: `\e]8;;http://www.kde.org\e\\click here\e]8;;\e\\\n` this is equivalent
to the html code `<a href="http://www.kde.org> click here </a>` and there's a
work in progress implementation for that in the works (featuring a VIP list of
accepted schemas, currently only file, http and https are allowed, but the user
can overrite)

{% include youtube.html id="R_caJmf142Y" %}

Those are all of the features that I worked (minus *tons* of bugfixes, security
improvements and general rewrites that are unrelated to new features). I hope
you all enjoy the new konsole, that is still one of the fastest terminal
emulators around, even tough it's packed with features for the experienced and
novice user.

